{"most_search_data":[{"id":"4","name":"Shakthan Thampuran Palace","description":"Shakthan Thampuran Palace situated in the town of Thrissur marks the royal residence of the king of Cochin and has been a famous tourist attraction because of its historical value. Popularly known as Vadakkekara Palace, it dated back to the time of the King of Cochin named Rama Varma Shakthan Thampuran and was constructed in 1795. The king was a very generous ruler, and the duration of his reign was known as the 'Golden Age of Kochi'. The beautiful palace with an amalgamation of Kerela and Dutch style of architecture is worth laying eyes on and should not be missed out on if you're on a trip to Thrissur.\r\n\r\nThe striking feature of this palace is that it consists of a shrine for the God of serpents known as Serpent Grove (Sarpakaavu). Numerous species of flora and fauna can be spotted too in the heritage garden present inside the premises. If one can seek prior permission, they can easily spend a family picnic in the vast and stunning lawns of the palace.\r\n\r\nThe Shakthan Thampuran Palace comes under the control of the archaeological department of the state and was converted into a museum in 2005. The museum consists of various unique bronze and granite sculptures, coins, inscription plates, utensils used by the royals and currency used in the Kochi dynasty. Various antiques belonging to the stone age are also on display. The enchanting architecture is sure to be a treat for history aficionados and culture buffs.","img_url":"1cnCPBOCi_lxo0kh69OO0q27cBHwhS2i6","latitude":"10.531151","logitude":"76.215881"},{"id":"6","name":"Thrissur Zoo","description":"Formerly known as the Trichur Zoo, Thrissur Zoo and the State Museum is located in the heart of Thrissur city, Kerala. Started in the year 1885, the attraction covers an area of approximately 13.5 acres. The zoo houses a wide variety of animals, reptiles, and birds. Besides the extensive variety of fauna, the zoo has many other attractions to fascinate you. There is a Zoological Garden, Botanical Garden, a Natural History Museum and an Art Museum, showcasing the socio-cultural heritage of the region. \r\n\r\nThe Art Museum located in Thrissur Zoo has an exquisite collection of wood-carvings, metal sculptures, Kathakali figures, ancient jewellery and a wonderful collection of traditional Kerala lamps. It also has some historical items like swords, jewellery, rocks, stuffed butterflies, etc. Some of the animals found here are tigers, lions, deer, sloth bears, monkeys, hippopotamus, camels, pink flamingos, mithun of the north-eastern hills, and lion-tailed macaques. There is a special building within the zoo compound which is an abode for snakes alone. It has a reptilian collection of King Cobras, Cobras, Python, Kraits, Vipers and Rat Snakes. Thrissur Zoo provides an opportunity to head out for an educational yet exciting trip with your family. The attraction promises to make your day memorable with the beautiful charm of nature and Kerala\u2019s rich history.","img_url":"1EOlI8vH3--mxI1_gc1691cGiwDZtnTlh","latitude":"10.530179","logitude":"76.222942"},{"id":"7","name":"Peechi Dam","description":"Peechi Dam lies at a distance of 23 km from Thrissur. The dam is the main irrigation project of this town of Kerala. It is a very famous attraction, and visitors come here now and then for the fantastic picnic spot it serves as and for the boating facilities which are offered at this reservoir. One can also come across Peechi-Vazhani Wildlife Sanctuary here which is a must-visit place for the nature-lovers. The dam is constructed across the Manali River.\r\n\r\nThe dam is spread across an area of 3200 acres. When it was completely built in 1957, it could irrigate up to 17555 Ha of land present in Mukundapuram, Thrissur, Thalappally and Chavakkad Taluk. Peechi Dam also supplies drinking water to the town of Thrissur.\r\n\r\nPeechi-Vazhani Wildlife Sanctuary situated near the dam is worth paying a visit. It was built in 1958 and covers an area of 125 square km. It is home to a variety of flora and fauna. Ponmudi with a height of about 923 m is the highest peak in the sanctuary and experiences an average rainfall of about 3000 mm.","img_url":"1zV8kBGmekVARd7EHLyL1sA2j5r_uTXFM","latitude":"10.52955","logitude":"76.369624"},{"id":"2","name":"Charpa Falls","description":"Charpa Falls is another one of the nature's delight that displays the blessings of Mother Nature. Cascading down from a shot height, this fall which is a part of River Chalakkudy offers a breathtaking experience. Athirappilly Falls and Lake Vachumaram are a stone's throw away from Charpa Falls.","img_url":"1znkFrAH6ObV4SQOVzo-IwZ0oMLkBXK8W","latitude":"10.303889","logitude":"76.580214"}]}
