{"most_search_data":[{"id":"1","name":"Athirapally Falls","description":"Located 60 km from the Thrissur district of Kerala, Athirapally Falls is a marvellous cascade of frothy waters that makes its way from the Anamudi mountains of the Western Ghats. This 80 ft high and 330 ft wide marvel is the largest waterfall in Kerala and is often referred to as the \"Niagara Falls of India\". From here, the Athirapally falls flows through the verdant greenery of Vazhachal Forest toward the Arabian Sea, creating a spectacular vista of scintillating water, emerald jungles and azure sky.\r\n\r\nWhen you land in Athirapally, you are greeted with the sight of charming green Sholayar Peaks peering over the rushing gush of the falls. Standing against the backdrop of a rustling jungle foliage, this many films and music videos are shot here. Bird lovers cannot miss this place, for it is the only place in the Western Ghats where four endangered Hornbill species are seen. There is a pool above the falls where you can relax and unwind. To get a view of the waterfall, one needs to get down from the mountain for about 100 meters.\r\n\r\nAnother interesting fact to note is that the fall joins forces with the Chalakkudy river before reaching its final destination into the sea. There are a couple of water theme parks on the way to Athirappilly called Silver Storm and Dream World and many resorts as well.","img_url":"12PdaYbypxKlrX7ZYikvG_C0Sdmm1eznf","latitude":"10.286065","logitude":"76.569842"},{"id":"2","name":"Charpa Falls","description":"Charpa Falls is another one of the nature's delight that displays the blessings of Mother Nature. Cascading down from a shot height, this fall which is a part of River Chalakkudy offers a breathtaking experience. Athirappilly Falls and Lake Vachumaram are a stone's throw away from Charpa Falls.","img_url":"1znkFrAH6ObV4SQOVzo-IwZ0oMLkBXK8W","latitude":"10.303889","logitude":"76.580214"},{"id":"3","name":"Vadakummnathan temple","description":"With a collection of beautiful Mural paintings, some of which are more than 400 years old, this gigantic 1000 year old temple and historical structure is famous for the Nataraja Mural near the main gate.\r\n\r\nThe structure till date, displays its original colors without much preservation. The shrine of Vadakkumnathan is also situated there, which is apparently covered completely under ghee for centuries, without any incidence of melting. The shrines of Mahavishnu and Shankaranarayan are also located in the temple. It features one of the largest Dance Hall, called Koothambalam which depict unique Keralan architecture. It hosts traditional performances called Nangyar Koothu. Just outside the temple complex are situated the Thiruvambadi Krishna Temple and Paramekkavu Devi Temple, which are considered to be the sister temples of Vadakummnathan. This Temple is strictly open to Hindus. Non-Hindus are not allowed inside, but they can stand outside and look at the photos from there.","img_url":"1zMzSlJ4Tnn1q0kcdIH_MjLB-d9gYxaga","latitude":"10.524284","logitude":"76.214596"},{"id":"4","name":"Shakthan Thampuran Palace","description":"Shakthan Thampuran Palace situated in the town of Thrissur marks the royal residence of the king of Cochin and has been a famous tourist attraction because of its historical value. Popularly known as Vadakkekara Palace, it dated back to the time of the King of Cochin named Rama Varma Shakthan Thampuran and was constructed in 1795. The king was a very generous ruler, and the duration of his reign was known as the 'Golden Age of Kochi'. The beautiful palace with an amalgamation of Kerela and Dutch style of architecture is worth laying eyes on and should not be missed out on if you're on a trip to Thrissur.\r\n\r\nThe striking feature of this palace is that it consists of a shrine for the God of serpents known as Serpent Grove (Sarpakaavu). Numerous species of flora and fauna can be spotted too in the heritage garden present inside the premises. If one can seek prior permission, they can easily spend a family picnic in the vast and stunning lawns of the palace.\r\n\r\nThe Shakthan Thampuran Palace comes under the control of the archaeological department of the state and was converted into a museum in 2005. The museum consists of various unique bronze and granite sculptures, coins, inscription plates, utensils used by the royals and currency used in the Kochi dynasty. Various antiques belonging to the stone age are also on display. The enchanting architecture is sure to be a treat for history aficionados and culture buffs.","img_url":"1cnCPBOCi_lxo0kh69OO0q27cBHwhS2i6","latitude":"10.531151","logitude":"76.215881"},{"id":"5","name":"Vazhachal Falls","description":"There are tree shades and sitting arrangement built around is a good place to relax with friends and family. The rocky falls are really a must visit spot.\r\n\r\nVazhachal Falls is a popular picnic spot. Quality time can be spent here with the family. The place is located at a distance of 60 km from Thrissur city and 5 km from Athirapilly Falls. Vazhachal Falls have dense forests of Sholayar ranges surrounding. During its course on rocky terrain, River Chalakkudy gives out in three branches, which resume its flow surrounding the small islands formed by the riparian forests. These three branches gather momentum on its downward course and plummet to the rocky bed of River Chalakkudy to re-unite.","img_url":"1znkFrAH6ObV4SQOVzo-IwZ0oMLkBXK8W","latitude":"10.302006","logitude":"76.592058"},{"id":"6","name":"Thrissur Zoo","description":"Formerly known as the Trichur Zoo, Thrissur Zoo and the State Museum is located in the heart of Thrissur city, Kerala. Started in the year 1885, the attraction covers an area of approximately 13.5 acres. The zoo houses a wide variety of animals, reptiles, and birds. Besides the extensive variety of fauna, the zoo has many other attractions to fascinate you. There is a Zoological Garden, Botanical Garden, a Natural History Museum and an Art Museum, showcasing the socio-cultural heritage of the region. \r\n\r\nThe Art Museum located in Thrissur Zoo has an exquisite collection of wood-carvings, metal sculptures, Kathakali figures, ancient jewellery and a wonderful collection of traditional Kerala lamps. It also has some historical items like swords, jewellery, rocks, stuffed butterflies, etc. Some of the animals found here are tigers, lions, deer, sloth bears, monkeys, hippopotamus, camels, pink flamingos, mithun of the north-eastern hills, and lion-tailed macaques. There is a special building within the zoo compound which is an abode for snakes alone. It has a reptilian collection of King Cobras, Cobras, Python, Kraits, Vipers and Rat Snakes. Thrissur Zoo provides an opportunity to head out for an educational yet exciting trip with your family. The attraction promises to make your day memorable with the beautiful charm of nature and Kerala\u2019s rich history.","img_url":"1EOlI8vH3--mxI1_gc1691cGiwDZtnTlh","latitude":"10.530179","logitude":"76.222942"},{"id":"7","name":"Peechi Dam","description":"Peechi Dam lies at a distance of 23 km from Thrissur. The dam is the main irrigation project of this town of Kerala. It is a very famous attraction, and visitors come here now and then for the fantastic picnic spot it serves as and for the boating facilities which are offered at this reservoir. One can also come across Peechi-Vazhani Wildlife Sanctuary here which is a must-visit place for the nature-lovers. The dam is constructed across the Manali River.\r\n\r\nThe dam is spread across an area of 3200 acres. When it was completely built in 1957, it could irrigate up to 17555 Ha of land present in Mukundapuram, Thrissur, Thalappally and Chavakkad Taluk. Peechi Dam also supplies drinking water to the town of Thrissur.\r\n\r\nPeechi-Vazhani Wildlife Sanctuary situated near the dam is worth paying a visit. It was built in 1958 and covers an area of 125 square km. It is home to a variety of flora and fauna. Ponmudi with a height of about 923 m is the highest peak in the sanctuary and experiences an average rainfall of about 3000 mm.","img_url":"1zV8kBGmekVARd7EHLyL1sA2j5r_uTXFM","latitude":"10.52955","logitude":"76.369624"},{"id":"8","name":"Kerala Kalamandalam","description":"Kerala Kalamandalam, situated in the village of Cheruthuruthy in Chelakkara of Thrissur District on the banks of the Bharathapuzha River is a Deemed University of Arts and Culture in Kerala. Established as a major centre for revival and uplifting of traditional performing art forms, especially those with their roots in South India. Visitors can not only look around the place and take in its ethereal natural and man-made beauty but also converse with the masters and students and take snapshots of all the lovely memories. It is not allowed to strike up a conversation with a practising or performing student as it is considered as an insult to the art form. However, the staff will guide you along every detail of the culture you want to know.\r\n\r\nThe institute is devoted towards the preservation of classical Indian dance forms like Kathakali, Mohiniyattam, Kudiyattam, Thullal, Kuchipudi, Bharatanatyam, and Nangiar Koothu, besides the traditional orchestra called Panchavadyam and instruments like Chenda, Maddalam, Mridangam and Mizhavu. It was established with a vision in mind of the founders that the institution will bring forth and uphold over the time the values these forms of art.\r\n\r\nKerala Kalamandalam is a place of education in these art forms and training is imparted to those interested with utmost sincerity and authenticity. Though a very limited number of people is allowed inside this hallowed establishment, those who do visit stay witness to an enriching experience of true, unadulterated Indian classical art forms of music and dance.","img_url":"15RsSiaswBiQtN_oasFamr8zrwT0X9TQ3","latitude":"10.736594","logitude":"76.279035"},{"id":"9","name":"Heritage Garden","description":"This Heritage Garden lying in the heart of the city is famous for housing many rare species of flora. It is a well manicured garden and is quite popular among locals and tourists as a picnic spot.","img_url":"1J1bg9jA1G36ky72TdA6aOkVMoOggmoNm","latitude":"10.808895","logitude":"76.119071"}]}
