{"most_search_data":[{"id":"2","name":"Charpa Falls","description":"Charpa Falls is another one of the nature's delight that displays the blessings of Mother Nature. Cascading down from a shot height, this fall which is a part of River Chalakkudy offers a breathtaking experience. Athirappilly Falls and Lake Vachumaram are a stone's throw away from Charpa Falls.","img_url":"1znkFrAH6ObV4SQOVzo-IwZ0oMLkBXK8W"},{"id":"5","name":"Vazhachal Falls","description":"There are tree shades and sitting arrangement built around is a good place to relax with friends and family. The rocky falls are really a must visit spot.\r\n\r\nVazhachal Falls is a popular picnic spot. Quality time can be spent here with the family. The place is located at a distance of 60 km from Thrissur city and 5 km from Athirapilly Falls. Vazhachal Falls have dense forests of Sholayar ranges surrounding. During its course on rocky terrain, River Chalakkudy gives out in three branches, which resume its flow surrounding the small islands formed by the riparian forests. These three branches gather momentum on its downward course and plummet to the rocky bed of River Chalakkudy to re-unite.","img_url":"1znkFrAH6ObV4SQOVzo-IwZ0oMLkBXK8W"},{"id":"8","name":"Kerala Kalamandalam","description":"Kerala Kalamandalam, situated in the village of Cheruthuruthy in Chelakkara of Thrissur District on the banks of the Bharathapuzha River is a Deemed University of Arts and Culture in Kerala. Established as a major centre for revival and uplifting of traditional performing art forms, especially those with their roots in South India. Visitors can not only look around the place and take in its ethereal natural and man-made beauty but also converse with the masters and students and take snapshots of all the lovely memories. It is not allowed to strike up a conversation with a practising or performing student as it is considered as an insult to the art form. However, the staff will guide you along every detail of the culture you want to know.\r\n\r\nThe institute is devoted towards the preservation of classical Indian dance forms like Kathakali, Mohiniyattam, Kudiyattam, Thullal, Kuchipudi, Bharatanatyam, and Nangiar Koothu, besides the traditional orchestra called Panchavadyam and instruments like Chenda, Maddalam, Mridangam and Mizhavu. It was established with a vision in mind of the founders that the institution will bring forth and uphold over the time the values these forms of art.\r\n\r\nKerala Kalamandalam is a place of education in these art forms and training is imparted to those interested with utmost sincerity and authenticity. Though a very limited number of people is allowed inside this hallowed establishment, those who do visit stay witness to an enriching experience of true, unadulterated Indian classical art forms of music and dance.","img_url":"15RsSiaswBiQtN_oasFamr8zrwT0X9TQ3"},{"id":"9","name":"Heritage Garden","description":"This Heritage Garden lying in the heart of the city is famous for housing many rare species of flora. It is a well manicured garden and is quite popular among locals and tourists as a picnic spot.","img_url":"1J1bg9jA1G36ky72TdA6aOkVMoOggmoNm"}]}
